# Convex-Hull
The study of collision cascades database is helpful in radiation damage study of different materials. It is of immense practical use in predicting changes in properties of fission and fusion reactor materials. We present a novel method to characterise damage areas with volume, density and structure using computational geometric algorithms like convex hull and classify damage areas based on geometric properties. The methods are applied on a database of collision cascades in Fe and W at energies ranging from 10 keV to 200 KeV. The results show interesting relations among geometric properties of convex hull providing new insights and parameters that can be used in simulations at higher scales. They also manifest whether collision cascades contains sub- cascades or not with noticeable accuracy. We discussed each step, starting with application of the computational geometry algorithms on simulation output of collision cascades to reduction of physics problems to machine learning stages viz. feature extraction, dimensionality reduction and supervised classification.

We also accord structural visualisation of convex hull in different dimensions. Additionally, we performed qualitative analysis on collision cascades’ characteristics (energy, substrate), convex hull features like area, volume, density, no. of indices, etc., using different statistical plots. We can infer interesting trends from statistical plots that can further be used to carry out classification. The supervised machine learning classification figures the existence of sub-cascades if present in a cascade.

We discuss the key points and computational efficiency of the algorithms along with various prominent results of the application. The open-source software implementation of the methods along with the supporting analysis and visualisations gives a supervised approach for data exploration and classification of collision cascades. The geometrical properties of convex hull like volume, density, etc., for different elements and energies can be used as input to higher scale models in a multi-scale radiation damage study.